# 02. Depositing schmeckels

Congratulations on passing problem 01. As you probably noticed the bank so far
doesn't much, let's try and expand the functionality a bit. Pinky promise we'll
get to the crypto soon!

<details>
  <summary>Solution to problem 01</summary>

```js
// bank.js
var jsonStream = require('duplex-json-stream')
var net = require('net')

var server = net.createServer(function (socket) {
  socket = jsonStream(socket)

  socket.on('data', function (msg) {
    console.log('Bank received:', msg)
    socket.write({cmd: 'balance', balance: 0})
  })
})

server.listen(3876)
```

```js
// teller.js
var jsonStream = require('duplex-json-stream')
var net = require('net')

var client = jsonStream(net.connect(3876))

client.on('data', function (msg) {
  console.log('Teller received:', msg)
})

client.end({cmd: 'balance'})
```

</details>

## Tracking transactions

Next you should add a `deposit` command, which takes an `amount` and adds this
to the bank vault balance. But to keep an audit trail all deposits should be
kept in a transaction log. This will prove to have lots of benefits later. A
transaction log is just another way of saying that all operations that modify
the state are kept in an array, and the current state is derived by `.reduce`ing
this array.

For example, here's a transaction log that should reduce to balance of
250 schmeckels:

```js
var log = [
  {cmd: 'deposit', amount: 130},
  {cmd: 'deposit', amount: 0},
  {cmd: 'deposit', amount: 120}
]
```

### Side quest

As an optional exercise, try writing a [`.reduce`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/Reduce)
function that takes the above log, and arrives at the correct balance. To test
it out, try adding more entries to the log.

## Problem

You job now is to expand the `teller.js` and `bank.js` with the `deposit`
command, that is stored in a transaction log and updates the bank state (ie.
it's balance). When the bank gets a deposit command, it should reply with the
current balance like this: `{cmd: 'balance', balance: someNumber}`.
A good idea is to make `teller.js` a very simple CLI tool, reading commands and
arguments from `process.argv`.

<details>
  <summary>Hint</summary>

You can easily handle multiple commands using a switch statement like this:

```js
switch (command) {
  case 'balance':
    // ...
    break

  case 'deposit':
    // ...
    break

  default:
    // Unknown command
    break
}
```

</details>

## Testing

Spin up your new `bank.js` to make a couple of deposit up to 250 schmeckels in
your bank, using `node teller.js deposit 123`, and checking your balance.

[Continue to problem 03](03.md)
