# 05. Threat modelling

Now we have a functioning bank! A very simple one, but a functional one. But it is also completely insecure! We put our complete trust in the tellers, the
system administrators and directors at the bank. So let's start thinking of how
we can secure our bank.

<details>
  <summary>Solution to problem 04</summary>

```js
// bank.js

```

```js
// teller.js

```

</details>

## How to define threat models

One of the important rituals in engineering secure systems is threat modelling.
It is more of a planning exercise than a practical one. It is all about
defining who your opponents (called adversaries in crypto-lingo) are, what they
stand to gain from breaking your system and how we can either eliminate the
threat they pose or make it so costly to achieve their goals, that their
threat becomes negligible in your model.

Threat modelling helps you focus on real threats instead of contrived ones. If
you do not keep this laser focus on what is actually within your model, you will
be stuck in "paralysis analysis". This is also why it is important to figure out
what your adversary stands to gain, and how far they are willing to go to break
your system, plus what you're willing to invest to mitigate the risk.


## Our first threat model

So far we have have only briefly mentioned two security aspects; a transaction
log which also serves as a simple audit trail and checking that the bank has
sufficient funds. The latter you might not regards as a security feature, but
being extremely cautious and only accepting well defined inputs is the first
step towards securing the system. It is also important here to realise that it
is the `bank.js` server that should be locked down, while any checking in the
`teller.js` is just "nice" validation to save a network round-trip.

Validating inputs is, as such, not important to our tour of cryptography, so we
will leave that as a bonus exercise. The transaction log, however, is at the core
of our bank. As it stands now, anyone can reorder, add or remove
transactions, without us being able to detect it. Securing our transaction log
will be our first avenue into cryptography. A first threat model may look
roughly like the following:

* **Who**: Anyone with physical access to the bank (disgruntled staff, corrupt directors, evil hackers)
* **What**: Transaction forgery
* **How**: Simply editing the transaction log

## Testing

Unleash your inner hacker! (or script-kiddie.) Try reordering, adding and
removing items from the log. Depending on your logic, you may even be able to
put the bank into a deficit, despite that being something that should not be
possible. We're in big trouble now.

[Continue to problem 06](06.md)
