# 08. Unforgeable fingerprints

<details>
  <summary>Solution to problem 07</summary>

```js
// bank.js

```

</details>

Phew, now we are just getting started trying to grok basic cryptography.
In the previous exercise we made sure that our banking application can verify
if there has been any corruption of it's transaction log using hashing.

However for our previous scheme to be secure it would require some operational
measures that may not be desirable. If the latest hash is distributed securely
to competing parties (customers, staff, directors) and they have the opportunity
to verify it at their discretion, this scheme is actually pretty safe. This is
the same idea behind distributing SHASUM file for binary releases, like how
Node.js does it. You download the SHASUM file from an official source, here
nodejs.org, and then you can download the binaries from any source and verify
that the SHA sums match.

In practise, there are still some major flaws present, since it is too hard to
enforce the above scheme for a bank where the hash changes all the time.
A very practical attack vector is for an adversary to simply modify some values
in the transaction log and then re-generate another valid hash chain. Then the
bank will never know it has been attacked! Let's try to fix this.

Basically we need a way for the bank to verify that it was the one that wrote
the hashes of the transaction log in the first place. That way an attacker
couldn't simply rewrite the transaction log and generate another hash-chain.
This property is called non-repudiation in crypto-lingo.

## Digital signatures and Key-pairs

A cryptographic technique for achieving non-repudiation is digital signatures.
A digital signature is a cryptographic primitive that has two operations, `sign`
and `verify`, and works just like a real-world signature, but without any
practical uncertainty.

To be able to create signatures you need what is called a key-pair. If you have
an account on Github you probably already have a SSH key pair, which is the same
concept but based on some very different mathematics. A key-pair consists of a
public key and a secret key. These are also sometimes known as the identity and
private key. The idea is that you distribute your public key to everyone, and
they use this key to verify any signature that you've made. The secret key is
never to be revealed as this is like a pen used to make signatures. If anyone
steals your secret key, they can impersonate you and it's game over.

## Signing with `libsodium` and `sodium-native`

`sodium-native` exposes digital signatures under the `crypto_sign_*` namespace.
The most important ones are:

* `sodium.crypto_sign_keypair(publicKey, secretKey)`
  Generates a key pair, where `publicKey` and `secretKey` are the output
  `Buffer`s. They need to be exactly `sodium.crypto_sign_PUBLICKEYBYTES` and
  `sodium.crypto_sign_SECRETKEYBYTES` long.
* `sodium.crypto_sign_detached(signature, message, secretKey)`
  The detached API writes the digital signature to `signature` `Buffer`, for
  `message` using `secretKey`. The signature `Buffer` needs to be
  `crypto_sign_BYTES` long. Like with hashing, this signature may contain
  non-printable bytes, so it is a good idea to convert to `hex` or `base64` if
  you want to work with it outside `Buffer`s.
* `var bool = sodium.crypto_sign_verify_detached(signature, message, publicKey)`
  To verify a signature, you pass in `signature` `Buffer`, the original
  `message` `Buffer` and the corresponding `publicKey`. It will return `bool`
  whether the signature could be verified or not.

This primitive will allow us to upgrade our bank's transaction log with an
unforgeable fingerprint (or signature) so we can verify that only the bank is
updating it. This will prevent anyone without access to the private key from
modifying the transaction log in any way.

Let's first do a basic exercise to get a bit more familiar with signing.

## Problem

Use the `crypto_sign` APIs to make two new programs `sign.js` and `verify.js`.
`sign.js` should generate a key-pair, sign a message from the command line and
print out the message, public key and signature. `verify.js` should accept the
public key, message and signature and verify that it is correct.

## Testing

Try generating a few messages and keys and verify them. Then try tampering with
the signature and messages and verify that the verify script rejects them.

For extra credit try sending your signed messages to other people in the
workshop and have them verify it. You may also think about the security around
how to establish trust in a public key, ie. how do you know the public key
belongs to the person you think owns it.

[Continue to problem 09](09.md)
