# 09. Signing the transaction log

<details>
  <summary>Solution to problem 08</summary>

```js
// sign.js
var sodium = require('sodium-native')

var publicKey = Buffer.alloc(sodium.crypto_sign_PUBLICKEYBYTES)
var secretKey = Buffer.alloc(sodium.crypto_sign_SECRETKEYBYTES)
sodium.crypto_sign_keypair(publicKey, secretKey)

var message = Buffer.from('Hello world!')
var signature = Buffer.alloc(sodium.crypto_sign_BYTES)

sodium.crypto_sign_detached(signature, message, secretKey)

console.log('Public key: ' + publicKey.toString('hex'))
console.log('Message: ' + message.toString())
console.log('Signature: ' + signature.toString('hex'))
```

```js
// verify.js

```

</details>

Now that we have a basic understanding on how digital signatures work we can
start securing the transaction log with this new primitive.

Remember, since we already have a hash chain of all transactions the only thing
missing is making sure we, the bank, are the only ones that are generating the
hash chain.

## Problem

Using the signature APIs you learned about in the previous exercise, extend the
bank to:

1. Check if a existing key-pair is stored on disk, if so load it.
2. If not, generate a new key-pair and store it.
3. When you generate a new hash for a transaction, sign it using the secret key
   and store the signature as a new property `signature`, next to the `hash` and
   `value` property.
4. When loading the transaction log extend verification to validate the
   signatures in addition to the hashes.

You might be thinking that storing the key-pair right next to the transaction
log is not very safe, but this is much more of an operational problem (which
also has technical mitigations), but for the purpose of our workshop it will
suffice. In a real bank you might use a Hardware Secure Module (HSM), which is a
logical separate computing unit in the server, from which the secret key never
leaves. As of current, [AWS has a CloudHSM Classic](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudhsm/pricing-classic/)
product which gives you a dedicated machine with it's own HSM, however the
upfront cost is $5,000 USD and around $1,500 USD monthly maintenance cost.

## Testing

Make sure your bank works the same way as before. Then stop the bank and try
tampering with the log. The bank should reject the bad transaction log, even if
the hashes are correct.

[Continue to problem 10](10.md)
