# 10. Updating the threat model

By now our bank has mitigated the original threat model to a degree where the
threat has shifted from the transaction log itself, and unto the key-pair. This
means that we have centralised security onto something that is easier to reason
about and has a much smaller attack surface, albeit being even more sensitive
to the operation of our bank. However, this problem is now more a question of
operations and policy than cryptography.

This also means that our priorities shift as we now have other threats that
pose higher risk. In this age of data leaks, we want to make sure that if an
adversary, eg. a three letter gov't agency, breaks into our bank server at night
and steals the transaction log, they stand to learn very little about the banks
business.

To achieve this, we need to introduce a new cryptographic primitive, symmetric
encryption.

Symmetric crypto dates all the way back to at least Julius Caesar, who used it
to communicate securely with his generals. Much has happened since then, but the
basic idea is the same, you have a key that is used for both the `encrypt` and
`decrypt` operations. In modern schemes you often also need a `nonce` which is
often a random piece of data, that is not required to be secret, but protects
against a several classes of attacks.

Using `sodium-native` this functionality is exposed through the
`crypto_secretbox` APIs:

* `sodium.crypto_secretbox_easy(cipher, message, nonce, secretKey)`
  Encrypt `message` `Buffer` into `cipher` `Buffer` with `nonce` and
  `secretKey`. The secret key must be `sodium.crypto_secretbox_KEYBYTES` and is
  best generated using the `sodium.randombytes_buf` API. This key must be
  persisted somehow. `nonce` should be another random buffer of size
  `sodium.crypto_secretbox_NONCEBYTES`. The `cipher` `Buffer` should be
  `message.length + sodium.crypto_secretbox_MACBYTES` long. It is important that you
  never re-use a nonce to encrypt more than a single message.
* `var bool = sodium.crypto_secretbox_open_easy(message, cipher, nonce, secretKey)`
  Decrypt `cipher` `Buffer` into `message` `Buffer` using `nonce` and `secretKey`.
  Will return a `boolean` depending on whether the cipher text could be decrypted.

## Problem

Use the APIs described above to make three new programs, `secret-key.js`
`encrypt.js` and `decrypt.js`.

* `secret-key.js` should generate a secret key using the `randombytes_buf` api of
  the correct length
* `encrypt.js` should accept a secret key and a message and print out the
  encrypted message and the random nonce used to encrypt it.
* `decrypt.js` should accept the encrypted message, secret key and nonce and
  print out the plaintext message if valid.

## Testing

Try running a couple of test messages like `Hello, World` through your encrypter
and try decrypting them to see that it works. Then try tampering with some of
the encrypted messages to see that decryption fails.

[Continue to problem 11](11.md)
